One strategy to boost success is to implement feedback. Information on one’s performance or level of understanding can heighten the chances of achieving the desired result not only after moments of failure but throughout the entire learning process ([[Wisniewski et al. (2020)]]). Research also indicates that implementing quick feedback. For feedback to provide instruction, [[Sadler (1989)]] states it should bridge the gap between current understanding and what is aimed to be understood. This may be done by increasing students’ [[Motivation]], grading answers on their accuracy, highlighting different learning strategies and clearly defining goals in the feedback provided ([[Hattie and Timperley (2007)]]). Research shows that the processing time among students can be increased through quick corrective feedback because they are more motivated to keep trying to solve a problem ([[Hattie (2012)]]). Longer processing times raise the probability of finding _meaning_ and _sense_ in the information, making long-term memory more likely - as illustrated in the chapter '[[Science of Learning]]'([[Sousa (2022)]]).

## Different Types of Feedback
[[Hattie and Timperley (2007)]] present four levels of feedback: 1) directly about the task, 2) about the process, 3) about the person’s self-regulation and 4) about them as a person. The 4th level is argued to be least effective in reaching the desired level of understanding, while the first (referred to as corrective feedback), is especially beneficial when students possess the general knowledge but interpret it incorrectly, leading to erroneous judgements. This direct feedback on answers being correct or not (level 1) should be given immediately after submission ([[Hattie and Timperley (2007)]]). Levels 3) and 4) are difficult to implement in university settings as the number of students is too large to provide consistent feedback on personality and circumstance; supporting [Lipsch-Wijnen and Dirkx's (2022)](Lipsch-Wijnen%20and%20Dirkx%20(2022)) findings that self-regulation feedback is not implemented enough in tested settings.

As with every emotional component, the influences and effects of motivation are individual to each student. (Too) Honest feedback may push one student to work harder, while it may break another who simply struggles to find _meaning_ and _sense_ in the information. [[Wisniewski et al. (2020)]] claim that feedback affects cognitive and behavioural aspects more profoundly positively than it does motivation and behaviour: uninformative feedback will have a more detrimental effect on motivation than it will on understanding due to the potential involvement of emotions such as frustration or despair. Thus, caution should be taken to make feedback as informative and personalised as possible. Timings, too, should not be neglected: corrective feedback (level 1) is best provided immediately.