The term 'microlearning' refers to a learning approach based on 'micro-sized' chunks of information ([[Gabrielli et al. (2006)]]). Micro-sized, here, refers to sessions ranging from several seconds to 15 minutes ([[Buchem and Hamelmann (2010)]]) and from 30 seconds to five minutes according to [[Jahnke et al. (2020)]]. Generally, an average between the two is used. 

A microlearning unit should only cover one distinguishable topical concept or idea to very efficiently provide concise, in-depth information. It is also self-contained, meaning that no further research or information is needed to fully understand the content. Furthermore, a microlearning unit is designed as an interactive learning block with tools to edit texts, mind maps, or any other activity that encourages *active participation* from the learners. 

Learning elements of such short durations present two main advantages: (1) they can be completed at convenient times of a busy day, for example, while commuting or during a lunch break, and (2) learners are likely to stay focused for the entire session since it does not extend their relatively short average attention spans.

Both benefits may reduce the inhibitions many students have towards studying and encourage them to start learning more frequently. Oftentimes once users have stopped procrastinating and started studying, they will continue doing so for longer than they may initially have thought because they have started to concentrate and find it is not quite as terrible as they feared. microlearning content should be designed so that it can be completed without the need for complex tools or measures, which makes sessions even faster and more inviting. This flexibility lends microlearning a certain ‘informal’ quality to quickly relay concise information on a specific topic, rather than a comprehensive understanding of an entire subject ([[Gabrielli et al. (2006)]]).

## Optimising the Effects of Microlearning
Mobile microlearning targets mobile phones rather than computers, further encouraging hassle-free, on-the-go learning through manageable, compact learning content optimised for small screens ([[Jahnke et al. (2020)]]). There are, however, also disadvantages to mobile microlearning, such as the increased potential for distractions through social media or text messages ([[Andoniou (2017)]]).

To optimise the positive effects of microlearning, [[Jahnke et al. (2020)]] pinpoint the best times to complete a session as (1) when you need to solve a problem immediately, (2) when you are highly motivated and finally (3) when you are preparing to perform.

Research generally agrees that microlearning increases learners’ engagement and knowledge retention ([[De Gagne et al. (2019)]]) as well as motivation ([[Halbach and Solheim (2018)]]). In conclusion, (sustainable) learning is encouraged through (1) finding _meaning_ and _sense_ in the information, which is increased through high motivation ([[Sousa (2022)]]), (2) exposure effects due to repetitions ([[Johnson and Hasher (1987)]]) and (3) the application of direct corrective feedback ([[Hattie and Timperley (2007)]]). Especially those individuals with the ‘growth mindset’ introduced in [[Science of Learning]] will be motivated to partake in additional, optional resources ([[Sousa (2022)]]).

Many students without such a growth mindset may struggle to find the same motivations without external help. Gamification can provide this ‘help’ by adding fun elements and rewards which may entice them to engage in learning activities because they see it less as an obligation but an enjoyable experience. This may lead them to start linking success and rewards to an initially boring activity and become more inclined to participate in the future.